Aashna Avachat
Neighborhood Literary Agency

My Manuscript Wish List®

I am excited to build my list in a variety of different categories and genres!

I am currently building a list of authors/illustrators of color.

Within submissions by creators of color, I am especially interested in queer representation, religious diversity, and disability representation in all age categories. For all fiction, I am looking for #ownvoices stories that feature protagonists of color.

My goal as an agent is to champion diversity in publishing, to uplift creators of color and marginalized communities. I have pretty commercial taste across the board, from kidlit to adult, fiction and non-fiction.

Picture Books:

Laugh out-loud funny books with clever illustration potential (think: Meet the Dullards, The Paper Bag Princess)
Family, culture, SEL, nature/environment themes
NOT currently looking for food-based books or rhyming books!
NOT currently looking for PB non-fiction or biographies. Fiction only, please!

Illustrators:

Artists interested in picture books, chapter books, or covers, whether children’s books or adult

Graphic Novel:

Author-illustrated graphic novels for children, teens, or adults
I am open to GNs in the genres listed below
Also open to GN memoirs and historical GN

Middle Grade:

Primarily contemporary MG with a strong hook
MG featuring queer characters, characters with disabilities
Spooky MG
Some MG favorites: Almost Flying, Clues to the Universe, From the Desk of Zoe Washington
NOT looking for anthropomorphic books

Young Adult:

Romantic comedies where both leads are POC
Mysteries/thrillers
Contemporary spy/heist novels in the vein of I’d Tell You I Love You, But Then I’d Have to Kill You or a YA Portrait of a Thief
Palace intrigue: NON-magical, NON-dystopian, royalty-based stories in the vein of The False Prince or Liar’s Kingdom (but without faeries!)
Mythology/fantasy retellings with twists, and so long as the fantasy elements are very light (think YA Kaikeyi or YA Song of Achilles)
Plot-driven horror
Modern retellings of classics
Pre-modern historical novels in the vein of June Hur
Speculative fiction with very light sci-fi/fantasy elements (think These Violent Delights)
cross-over into New Adult under the same genres
Dark academia with political critique of academia
Cozy fantasy (light fantasy)
Witches in a light fantasy setting

Adult:

Romantic comedies where both leads are POC
Mysteries (not looking for police/organized crime focused mysteries)
Epic mysteries in the vein of God of the Woods; All the Colors of the Dark
Domestic thrillers in the vein of Stacy Willingham, Lisa Jewell, Emiko Jean
Funny contemporary in the vein of Anxious People and The Wedding People
Literary-ish books like Everything I Never Told You, Such a Fun Age, Tomorrow & Tomorrow & Tomorrow
Plot-forward horror
Cozy fantasy (A Very Secret Society of Irregular Witches)
Mythology/fantasy retellings with twists, and so long as the fantasy elements are very light (think Kaikeyi or Song of Achilles)

Non-Fiction:

Pop culture criticism
Gender/feminist criticism & journalism (The Right to Sex, Girls & Sex, How to Date Men When You Hate Men)
Accessible pop science (Everything is Tuberculosis)
A deep dive into a niche area through narrative journalism style
Unique cookbooks
Some of my non-fiction favorites: Nabokov’s Favorite Word is Mauve; The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks; Perfect Victims; Just Mercy

Ultra-specific MSWL:

The Clique but about girls of color
OCD representation where OCD is not the only primary plot (Think: Turtles All the Way Down)
YA wilderness camp horror/mystery
Something like Yellowjackets 

I am NOT currently looking for:

Memoir
Sci-Fi
Fantasy (I have very very few, specific exceptions to this; see above!)
War novels
Novels in-verse/poetry
Short story/essay collections
Oppressor-oppressed romances
On-the-page sexual violence/child abuse
Vampires/werewolves/faeries
Board books
Dystopian
Chapter books
Epistolary formats
Children’s non-fiction
Erotica
Books where a cop/police officer/prosecutor is the main character
Submission Guidelines

Please submit your query via Query Tracker, linked below.

Picture Books:

Please submit the entire PB text in the writing sample section & (if applicable) include your dummy/art samples in the “upload sample artwork” section.

Graphic Novels:

Please submit the first 10 pages of your script in the writing sample & include 10 sample pages in the “upload sample artwork” section.

Illustrators:

Please submit a query with information about the kinds of projects you’re interested in illustrating along with any experience. Please link your website and submit a sample portfolio in the “upload sample artwork” section.

Novelists:

Please submit the first 10 pages of your MS and include a synopsis.

Non-Fiction:

Please paste your entire proposal in writing sample section. A proposal should include a pitch, your author platform/bio, comparative titles, a manuscript overview/outline, and sample pages. For an excellent non-fiction proposal overview, please see here.

I’d like the next…
My favorites include…

Books:

People We Meet on Vacation
The Right to Sex
Check & Mate
Such a Fun Age
anything Nicola Yoon
anything Nina LaCour
All the Dangerous Things
Almost Flying

TV Shows:

Severance
Adults
Yellowjackets
The Bachelor
Never Have I Ever
Better Call Saul
One Day
The Rehearsal
My Lady Jane
New Girl

Movies:

Rocky Aur Rani Ki Prem Kahani
How to Lose a Guy in 10 Days
She’s the Man
